>> Todd Gardner: So
let's get into some legacy metrics.
The first legacy metric
is DOMContentLoaded.
And I don't mean legacy
like it's going away,
I mean legacy in that we used to measure
web performance using these things, and
we largely don't anymore, but
they're still important to know.
It means, specifically, that the HTML,
that initial blue bar,
has loaded, has fully downloaded.
We've parsed it, we know everything in it,
and any scripts,
any JavaScript,
that's in it has been fully executed.
So everything in the document is done.
Now, images might not have loaded,
but the HTML document itself is done.
So here's an example, so this is that same
waterfall chart from our example, and
here's where DOMContentLoaded
falls in place.
So we downloaded the HTML,
right away we needed to download some,
some style sheets and
we downloaded some JavaScripts.
As soon as that JavaScript is done,
the last,
which is the only JavaScript on
the page DOMContentLoaded, has fired.
Now there's still some images going on.
There's, if we're visibly looking at this
web page, those images are slowly drawing
line by line to be displayed to the user,
but DOMContentLoaded has now fired.
If we take a look at an example,
here is a film strip of loading.
And this is the old geocities.com website,
because, again,
I'm old and I've been doing web stuff for
a very long time.
So geocities.com, here's about
where DOMContentLoaded would be.
So the user starts navigating to
the page and there's nothing there,
then we things start drawing in, and
presumably JavaScript is firing and
various bits are being parsed and
understood.
And then, before the images are all there,
DOMContentLoaded has fired.
Now then, other stuff happens, more images
come down, more stuff gets rendered,
other things happen, but
the DOMContentLoaded event has fired.
Why might we use this?
This understands that
the structure of the page is done.
If you want to understand
like every DOM element,
every element in the page is addressable.
You can grab it, you can do stuff with it.
The structure of the page is done, but
images media might not be displayed yet.
So, here's an example,
here's how you would listen to this.
This is just a common event that's
thrown globally called DOMContentLoaded.
We can grab it, just window add event
listener, DOMContentLoaded, and
print it out.
And it gives us an event
with a timestamp on it.
That timestamp is the milliseconds for
that event,
which in this case would be 1807
milliseconds for this particular website.
You can throw this at source code,
you could see when DOMContentLoaded is.
The second legacy metric that's really
important is just the load event,
which is super generic word.
It's often confused because when a website
loads and when the load event happens,
isn't always felt like the same thing.
The load event has a specific definition,
and it's when the HTML and
all known resources have been
downloaded and rendered.
So all of those images are down complete
and on the page, that we know about.
Now, it's important to call out
known because with JavaScript,
we could add more images
to the page dynamically.
We could add content,
we could do client side rendering,
we could inject new things,
those can happen at any time.
If they happen before the load event,
the load event will wait for them.
If they happened after the load event,
obviously,
the load event has already fired.
Now the exception is if we just
tell the browser explicitly to load
something lazily,
which we're gonna talk a lot about,
those can go well past the load event.
Let's put that in the waterfall.
So here is that same waterfall
chart where, with DOMContentLoaded.
Notice that the load event in red is all
the way at the end of the last image.
So everything that we knew about when
the document starts loading is now
complete and on the page.
This is also the time when the little
spinner in the browser stops, or
the loading thing in the lower corner,
depending on which browser you're using,
has fired.
When the load event happens, that's
typically when the browser does that sort
of indication to the user
that things are done.
Whether or
not it's actually done may not be true.
So in the case of geocities.com, here's
that load event right there at the end.
>> Todd Gardner: So
the document is ready and updating and
reporting tasks can begin.
So anything that we would do after the
initial setup of the page, we can begin.
How you would use this, I'm sure you've
written this in JavaScript code many
times, window add event listener load.
Super often people will add this as
like a wrapper of their JavaScript.
They don't want their JavaScript to start
executing until after everything is done.
That event,
off a load also has a timestamp,
which gives us the exact
milliseconds of when it happens.
So this might look super familiar
from a non performance perspective,
because there's lots of reasons why you
would attach this things as part of
the startup tasks of your application.